MUSIC
Churches are America's favourite place for redemption
and sixth favourite place for chicken.
Churches are a cornerstone of American life.
There are roughly 350,000 congregations in the United States,
and many of them do great work,
feeding the hungry, clothing the poor.
But this is not a story about them.
This is about the churches who exploit people's faith for monetary gain.
And when I say that, you probably think of 1980s televangelists,
like this guy.
I'm just getting into a prophetic vein.
Mamamoukosolo lo basata.
Manda de king, de bebo,
someone with digestive tract problems.
Quickly call.
Manda de basata.
We've seen midgets grow.
We've seen arms and legs that stop growing
because the growth cells have stopped.
Manda de basata.
I don't make this stuff up.
What?
Please, please.
You can't say I don't make this stuff up.
Just five seconds after you said the words
Manda de basata.
That man is Robert Tilton, and though he, like many televangelists, was caught up in an expose decades ago, he never really went away.
Healing going to those knees. Arthritis, go in the name of Jesus. Tumors, go in the name of Jesus. That one calling with Lupus. Lupus, you foul devil. You bow to the name of Jesus. Lupus, you bow to the name of Jesus. You go in Jesus' name.
Lupus, you complicated and not especially easy to describe,
man, are you go, Lupus?
You vex us with your foul lupusness, you go!
Now, though you may not be aware of it,
televangelism is still thriving in this country,
and Robert Tilton is just a very small part of it.
There are several large media networks
devoted to televangelism,
including Trinity, Inspiration Ministries and Daystar,
and the preachers that appear on them
can have incredible lifestyles.
Just earlier this year, a man named Creflo Dollar
got people's attention with a bold request.
Pastor Creflo Dollar of the World Changers Church International
facing harsh criticism after starting a fundraising campaign
to buy this $65 million luxury private jet.
If I want to believe God for a $65 million plane,
you cannot stop me.
You cannot stop me from dreaming.
You cannot stop me from dreaming.
is not how you ask for $65 million.
It's what you scream at your father
when he tells you you'll never be a Broadway dancer.
I can do it, Dad!
I've got the music in me!
But here's the thing.
Creflo Dollar wanting a private jet
is not remotely unusual.
There is a pattern of preachers wanting high-end airplanes,
and when they get them,
they're not always particularly humble about it.
I had enough money to buy a beautiful
Cessna Citation jet. Cash.
And since there's so much jealousy in this room tonight,
that I can feel over this.
A few weeks later, I bought another one worth three times
what that one was.
Cash. Act happy over my blessing, folks.
Oh.
I bought a jet cash. I bought a bigger jet cash.
Fuck the haters. Act happy for me.
That's not a sermon.
It's the first draft of a Rick Ross single.
Now, creatures claim these plans
These planes are vital tools.
Look at Kenneth Copeland, who along with his wife Gloria
are among the most successful TV evangelists.
A few years back, he asked his followers
to help buy a $20 million jet,
promising it would only be used for church business.
But a local news crew did some digging,
and what they found will probably not surprise you.
It was a news aid investigation last February
which first raised questions about Copeland's
apparently personal use of his new church jack.
Jack. This is a preaching machine.
Most notably for a ski trip to Colorado and visits to an exotic game ranch in South Texas.
Here's Copeland and his son John proudly posing with a pair of Axis deer, indigenous to India
and Sri Lanka.
Holy shit! This guy's like a psychotic reverse knower. Two by two, male and female came to
to Kenneth Copeland and he doth shot them right between the fucking eyes.
Now, Copeland's ministry will tell you that he reimburses the church for trips like that,
but that still means he has private jet reimbursement money.
And yet, despite that personal wealth, people still send Kenneth Copeland, Creflo Dollar
and that asshole with two planes, lots and lots of money.
And that's partly because they preach something called the prosperity gospel, which argues
that wealth is a sign of God's favor,
and donations will result in wealth coming back to you.
That idea sometimes takes the form of seed faith,
the notion that donations are seeds
that you will one day get to harvest.
Let me show you that in action.
The size of your seed will determine
the size of your harvest.
I don't understand why, but there's something
happens at a level where people step into faith
and give $1,000 that don't happen at other levels.
You're going to have a breakthrough through this $273 seed.
All you've got is $1,000.
Listen, that's not enough money anyway to buy the house.
You're trying to get in the apartment.
You're trying to buy the house.
That's not enough money anyway.
You get to that phone and you put that seed in the ground
and watch God work it out.
The argument is, sow your money in the ground
and you will reap returns multiple times over.
Except as an investment, you'd be better off
burying your money in the actual ground.
Because at least that way, there is a chance your dog
may dig it up and give it back to you, Wanda.
Good boy.
But...
But it can get even more predatory,
because if, say, you don't have $1,000
or perhaps have significant credit card debts,
seed faith can still work for you.
I have a feeling that somebody
that wants a credit card debt wiped out,
that if you'll use your faith as you sow,
As you sow the thousand on a credit card,
as you use your faith,
as you use your faith,
God's gonna wipe out your credit card in deadness.
Think about that.
That is the equivalent of saying,
the key to you losing weight lies at the bottom
of this giant Costco bulk bag of peanut butter M&Ms.
Go find it, it's definitely down there.
And all of this, all of this would be amusing
If the targets of these messages were not often vulnerable people like Bonnie Parker,
she did not seek medical treatment for cancer instead of choosing to sow money into Kenneth
Copeland's church and not let her daughter pick it up from there.
I started finding notebooks.
How long have she passed away?
She believed, and I know she believed because it's in the notebooks, that if she sowed enough
which was money, the greater amount of seed that you sow,
according to them, the better chance you have,
the better chance you have of getting healed.
At this point, I think it's clear that seed faith
is the most disgusting seed-based concept
since whatever the fuck chia seed pudding is.
Bonnie Parker gave thousands of dollars to the Copeland's Church
because she believed it was her best chance of beating cancer.
And you might think, well, that's crazy,
But it's not an unreasonable interpretation of the Copeland's preachings.
Gloria Copeland sells numerous products on healing through faith
and has been skeptical in the past about going to the doctor.
We know what's wrong with you. You've got cancer.
The bad news is we don't know what to do about it.
Except give you some poison that'll make you sicker.
Now, which do you want to do?
You want to do that or you want to sit here on Saturday morning,
Hear the Word of God, let faith come into your heart and be healed.
Hallelujah.
It's pretty clear that woman cannot hear the Word of God
because if she could, I'm pretty sure he'd be shouting,
Fuck you, Gloria!
Right in her ear.
And yet, and yet, not only is everything you've seen so far legal,
but the money people donate in response to it is tax-free
because if you're registered as a religious nonprofit
or especially a church, you are given broad exemptions over taxation and regulation.
The IRS in fact produced a scintillating video instructing its agents how to treat churches
and it contains a phrase that you would not normally associate with the agency.
Hello and welcome to churches and religious organizations, do's and don'ts.
For reasons as old as the United States, the tax laws and regulations that govern churches
and religious organizations are purposely broad and sometimes a little vague.
A little vague? Oh, they are underselling that because the films of Christopher Nolan are
a little vague. A text from your mom reading, please call not emergency but please call
very important, don't worry. That's a little vague. The IRS regulations are close to meaningless.
According to their tax codes, not only is the term church not specifically defined,
make no attempts to evaluate whether the content of a doctrine is religious,
provided the beliefs are truly held and are not illegal.
But truly held beliefs that are not illegal is almost every belief.
Bros before hoes, that could be a religion.
Red vines are better than twizzlers, that could be a religion.
If you believe the best movie ever made is Lady in the Water,
then your name is M Night Shyamalan,
but congratulations, Mr Shyamalan, that belief could be a religion.
And being designated a church confers all sorts of benefits,
like the Parsonage allowance,
which allows the Copelands to live in a $6.3 million house tax-exempt.
This is their house.
That is a Parsonage, which only makes sense if, by Parsonage,
they mean house that looks like it cost the net worth
of Big Bang Theory's Jim Parsons.
We actually asked the IRS how many churches
they've audited in recent years,
and they did one in 2014,
and just two in 2013.
The odds of a church getting audited
are basically the same as Gloria Copeland
curing your fucking cancer.
And when you can operate...
Here's the thing.
When you can operate with so little oversight,
it is amazing what you are able to do.
Look at Robert Tilton.
If you ever send him a donation,
you cannot imagine what happens.
And luckily, you don't have to imagine,
because...
And we should probably come clean here.
We have been involved in a correspondence with Robert Tilton's church
for the last seven months to try and find out what he tells people.
So settle in because this gets incredible.
Back in January, I sent him $20 and a letter asking to be added to his mailing list.
Within two weeks, he sent me a letter back thanking me for my donation
and claiming, I believe that God has supernaturally brought us together.
And supernatural is a bit of a stretch.
I saw him on television and I sent him some money.
He wasn't my dead lover who came back to help me with some pottery.
But soon afterwards, he sent me a second letter
and inside there was a $1 bill, which was exciting,
until I saw the inscription instructing me to send it back to him
with your best proof-god tithes or offering.
That's right. I had to send the $1 back
with an additional recommended offering of $37, which I did.
which I did. So at this point, we're just two letters in,
and already it's like having a penpal
who's in deep with some loan sharks.
This correspondence continued back and forth,
like this, until March, when he sent me
three small packets of coloured oil
that I was instructed to pour on letters
and send back to him by specific dates,
along with more money.
So I did that.
And in April, I got a letter in a Manila envelope
with the message, check enclosed,
And I thought, fantastic, I've seeded and I've seeded and I've seeded, here comes my harvest.
Then I open it and this is true, it was a check for $5 from me made out to Pastor Tilton's
church.
This went on for seven more letters and then he sent me a piece of fabric in the shape
of some mountains.
I assumed at this point I'd somehow reached the mountain level and surprise, surprise,
he asked me to send those mountains back to him with some more money again.
So I did, and then he sent me another letter
with another single dollar bill inside.
He told me to put that dollar bill in my Bible for one night
and then send it back the next day with $49 more,
so that he can have it blessed with oil
and send me a $1 bill back that has been blessed,
adding, I must warn you not to rob God
with your tithes and offerings.
And then for emphasis, I can't urge you enough
to not let this $1 bill stay in your house.
And you know what?
I kept that one dollar bill because fuck him.
That's why, so that one I kept.
That one I kept.
But, but that did not stop him.
The letters kept on coming.
I received another oil packet, more prayer cloths,
and even, and this is true, an outline of his foot.
Which I was asked to trace my foot on
and mail back to him with more money.
So as of tonight, I have sent him $319
and received 26 letters.
That's almost one a week.
And again, this is all hilarious
until you imagine these letters being sent to someone
who cannot afford what he's asking for.
So at this point, I was getting pretty angry
and looking for a sign of what to do.
So I watched a little more Robert Tilton
and the most amazing thing happened.
There's a person watching me
and you've been very frustrated with your purpose in life.
That might be me, Bob,
because I'm extremely frustrated right now,
as it seems my purpose in the last seven months
has been to send you money through the fucking mail.
So I will ask, what's that message that you have for me?
That's so strong just then.
Just then, I had a word of knowledge for someone
that's really been seeking God you have for a particular purpose or decision in your life.
And that is when I realized the message Robert Tiltmore sending me was that I should set up my own church
to test the legal and financial limits of what religious entities are able to do.
So that is what we have done.
We filed paperwork last week establishing a church called
Our Lady of Perpetual Exemption.
And it was disturbingly easy.
To make sure we did this correctly,
we had this actual tax lawyer walk us through the process.
Now, while the IRS does not have a definition of a church,
they do have a 14-point test as a guideline for churches.
But not only do you not have to meet all 14 points,
we'd already met some of them by accident.
For instance, you need an established place of worship,
but we meet every Sunday in this studio in New York.
And apparently, that genuinely counts.
Our lawyer also advised us our church needed
to be a distinct legal entity.
So we registered our church as a nonprofit corporation
in Texas, a state I do not live in, have never lived in,
but which is somehow completely fine for us
to incorporate a church in.
Now, the IRS's guidelines suggest you need a creed and form of worship,
but our law is suggested we could fulfill the worship requirement
by merely leading everyone in some specific ritual,
such as having congregants silently meditate
on the nature of fraudulent churches.
So...
Let us do exactly that and bow our heads in silent contemplation.
And lo, another box was ticked.
Amen.
And finally, finally, according to our attorney,
the best case for church membership will be made by those individuals
who are actually present in the Life Studio audience,
who will profess belief in the church's creed.
So what do you say, Life Studio audience?
Do you profess your belief?
I said, do you profess your belief tonight, brothers and sisters?
Then there is only one thing left for us to do.
Let's go to church
Brothers and sisters welcome to our Lady of Perpetual Exemption. I am your mega reverend
Thank you brothers and sisters your mega reverend and CEO John Oliver and can I tell you I am so blessed tonight
So blessed to be joined by my radiant wife wonder Joe Oliver, please welcome
Please be, please be in the show.
And Praise Be to all of you watching us tonight,
or joining us online at www.ourladyofperpetualexemption.com.
But most of all, Praise Be to the IRS,
that most permissive of government agencies.
Wanda Jo, I have heard the word of prophecy.
Hallelujah! What did it say, Majan?
I'll tell you. I'll tell you, Mawanda, it says,
the viewers at home must plant a seed.
A seed! An almighty seed!
Yes.
Preferably in the form of cash, although we do take checks.
It can be $5.
It can be $10.
It can be $77.
We need you to sew your biggest seed.
That's money.
Don't send a seed.
That's right, Wanda.
Please do not send us actual seeds.
Because we ain't interested in your seed.
We ain't interested.
We ain't interested.
Please send us your actual money to this address
at the bottom of your screen.
If you do this, and this is real,
great things will happen to you,
and that's apparently something I'm allowed to say.
Praise, praise, legal.
Praise our tax attorney.
Praise Loopholes and all their blessed loopiness.
Let me talk to the brothers and sisters at home.
Do you have debt?
Debt be gone!
Do you have loophos?
A demon plague.
Touch your hand to the screen right now
and we shall cure it.
Touch your hand to the screen right now.
Cursed you, cursed you demon loophos.
They devil us no more.
Cursed you loophos!
You probably didn't even know that you had Lucas,
but you did, but you don't anymore.
It's a miracle, it's a miracle.
It's a miracle tonight.
It's a miracle.
A miracle.
Do not delay.
Call this actual number right now, 1-800,
because amazingly, all of this is, this is all legal.
Call this toll-free number and plant your seed.
Plant it deep in him.
Okay.
Plant your seed in his mouth,
plant it all over his face.
Wonder one you keep it together wonder keep it together
All this number so you see and ye shall prosper
Wonder wonder do you feel the spirit?
All the number on your screen right now call it number
Because if Robert Tilton, Terry Copeland, and all these bastards who get away with it and we get stopped,
truly we have witnessed a fucking miracle tonight!
Look at that!
Give us money!
Give us money!
We want money!
