MUSIC
Lawsuits.
The reason the sentence Greta Thunberg allegedly killed Jeffrey
Epstein has the word allegedly in it.
And look, we'll get to the main substance of our story in a little bit,
but before we do, I actually need to give you a quick update on something.
You may remember that in 2017, we aired a piece on the coal industry
that touched on this man, Bob Murray, the then CEO of Murray Energy,
the largest privately held coal company in America.
In our piece, we discussed his closeness to President Trump, his company's lawsuits to block a rule intended to limit Miner's exposure to coal dust,
and his insistence that a deadly 2007 mine collapse was the result of a naturally-curing earthquake,
something decidedly at odds with a government investigation which found that it was caused by unauthorised mining practices.
Now, before the show went out, Murray's attorneys had sent us two separate letters,
warning us that if we aired the story, he would sue, and threatening that,
that Home Box office is in for the fight of its existence.
Which, look, might actually be true,
but not because of its lawsuit.
It's because Game of Thrones prequels,
including Game of Thrones The College Years,
Game of Thrones Winterfell Valley High,
and Throne Baby's Battle for the Rattle,
won't be out for at least a year.
HBO's gonna be fine.
It's gonna be fine.
Well, you may know, we went ahead with the story anyway,
and this happened.
Comedian John Oliver is the target of a lawsuit by one of the country's largest privately owned coal companies.
Oliver strongly criticised Murray Energy Corporation and CEO Robert Murray
Sunday on his HBO show Last Week Tonight.
It's true, Bob Murray sued us after that episode of Last Night Week Last Week Tonight aired.
Although, and this is true, that's not the title of our show and frankly, I expect better from an esteemed program like CBS Morning Night This Morning.
Hey, you fuck up our name, we fuck up yours.
Now, that was over two years ago,
and ever since, because the case has been in litigation,
we haven't been able to discuss it.
But recently, Murray actually dropped the lawsuit.
So I have some good news.
I can finally tell you exactly what happened,
which is honestly worth doing,
not only because it's a crazy story,
but because it actually points to a much bigger problem here.
But first, a little background on the lawsuit itself.
In it, Murray listed what he found objectionable in our piece,
including that we described him as someone who looks like a geriatric Dr Evil,
which we did, and he does,
and also that we arranged for a staff member to dress up in a squirrel costume
and deliver the message,
Eat Shit Bob.
And I actually don't even remember that happening.
Can we just quickly, can we just for a moment check the tape?
It's made out to you.
Eat Shit Bob.
Fair enough, my mistake, we did it.
It's funny, the things you forget.
That...that eat shit check was actually a reference to a real thing
that one of Murray's miners wrote on a bonus check that he received.
The background to that story was that Murray had implemented
a bonus program to his miners based on the amount of coal they extracted.
His workers union objected to that, believing it would have an adverse impact on safety in the mines.
And when Murray did it anyway, the miner returned his bonus check off, by the way,
by the way, $3.22, with the words, eat shit, Bob, written on it.
And the company tried to fire him for that, which seems pretty excessive.
Maybe that message was just an invitation to eat at shit, Bob,
the airport express version of Bob Evans.
Need a slick biscuit and some soggy sausage slop before your flight?
Then you have got to...
Come on down and eat shit, Bob.
We've all heard the jingle.
Anyway, Murray's lawsuit against us asked for damages
because he claimed that nothing has ever stressed him more
than our, quote, vicious and untruthful attack,
which is a odd thing to say, given that, as I just mentioned,
he oversaw a company whose mind collapsed in Utah
resulted in the deaths of nine people.
It went on to say that we attacked Murray in a forum
in which he had no opportunity to defend himself,
which is just not how anything works.
And besides, after launching his lawsuit,
Murray did defend himself and very publicly.
We'll pursue it to the fullest. This is a tragedy.
And American businessmen had better take note as to what they are trying to do with me.
A guy who's done nothing in his life, but follow the law, create jobs,
and do everything I could as best I could for our country.
These people are evil. They are very evil.
Hey, hey, hey, Bob. I think evil is a bit much there.
Look, you can say a lot of things about me.
for instance, that I look like a toucan who can't sleep without a night light,
or that my voice sounds like Jude Law if he had a kazoo stuck in his throat,
but evil seems like a bit of an exaggeration.
Now, obviously, the lawsuit was a bullshit effort to silence us,
perhaps best exemplified by a motion that Murray filed
to try and get a gag order to prevent us from re-broadcasting the story
or even having it up online.
And for the record, the piece is still on the internet big time,
and you can actually find it at stillontheinternetbigtime.com.
So...
So, it was... Yeah.
Just a useful shortcut.
So, it was no surprise when the case was dismissed
by the West Virginia judge who heard it last February,
and at that point, we figured this whole saga was over, right?
Well, wrong.
Because Murray then filed an appeal to the West Virginia Supreme Court,
and here's a fun side note.
One of the judges set to hear our case was Justice Alan Loffrey,
and that name weirdly rang something of a bell for us.
And then we remembered that in 2015,
we actually did a segment on elected judges
that commented on one of his campaign ads.
Here's a clip from that show.
Hi, I'm Alan Laughrey,
and I'm running for our Supreme Court.
It's Laughrey is in law and free.
This is my house. Come on in.
There's the kitchen.
Something smells good in my family room.
My wife, Kelly Laughere, in our son, Justice Laughere.
That's right, Justice Laughere.
Yes, sir.
Yep. I call my son Justice, I call my dog Preamble,
and I call my penis the gavel vote for me.
Boom. Boom.
Oopsie.
I mean, as far as things to say about a judge
before he makes a ruling on your case goes,
claiming that he calls his penis the gavel
is maybe not the best choice.
Even though, look at him, he clearly does.
So...so we were naturally pretty concerned at this point.
But then, in a bizarre twist,
all four justices of the state Supreme Court,
including Justice Loffery,
were impeached in a scandal over inappropriate spending.
So our case wound up just sitting there for over a year
until a few months ago, when, out of nowhere,
Murray's team offered to drop their lawsuit.
In possibly related news,
Murray Energy recently announced
it would be reorganising under bankruptcy,
though you should know Bob Murray will remain the company's chairman.
But we did wonder, what was the point
of him putting us through all of this in the first place?
Well, I would argue it's because winning the case was never really his goal,
and that brings us to the larger issue that we're going to talk about tonight,
slap suits.
Slap is an acronym that stands for Strategic Lawsuit Against Public Participation.
These are frivolous suits with no legal merit,
specifically designed to stifle public debate or dissent.
And these happen all the time.
And Murray is not alone in seemingly using lawsuits
to punish and intimidate his critics.
In fact, one of his good friends has openly called for changes
that would make it easier to file them.
I'm gonna open up our libel laws
so when they write purposely negative and horrible and false articles,
we can sue them and win lots of money.
So we're gonna open up those libel laws, folks,
and we're gonna have people sue you like you never got sued before.
It's true. Trump has been as enthusiastic about opening up libel laws
as he's been unenthusiastic about opening up a birthday present from Tiffany.
Look, I know it's a tie. You know it's a tie.
The only thing that isn't a tie is how much I love my daughters.
Now, Trump... Trump is famously litigious
and has launched a number of what I would argue are slapsuits.
For instance, when journalist Tim O'Brien reported in a book that sources close to Trump claimed his net worth was much lower than he claimed,
and only somewhere between 150 to 250 million, Trump did not take that well.
When the book came out, he didn't feel very good about it, and he ultimately sued me for defamation.
I think it's the biggest libel lawsuit in US history. He sued me for $5 billion.
It's true. Trump sued that man for $5 billion.
And think about that.
That means if Trump had won that lawsuit,
he would have been worth $5.2 billion.
That's a lot of money.
He'd be a billionaire.
But look, Trump lost, of course,
and afterward he openly admitted that he knew he couldn't win,
saying, I did it to make his life miserable,
which I'm happy about.
Which honestly makes sense, doesn't it?
because in Trump's heart, he's just a vindictive bad man.
He's the kind of guy who thinks the movie Sophie's Choice
is about a woman who got to give up one of her children.
But Trump's statement there
actually gets to the key characteristic of slapsuits.
The whole point is to put the defendant
through a difficult, painful experience.
And even if cases fail in lower courts, as they often do,
the plaintiffs can find ways to extend them
through intensive discovery requests, depositions,
and appeals that drain the target's time and resources.
And alarmingly, journalists are not the only ones
targeted with slapsuits.
In some cases, they can be used to silence
citizen activists.
Take the residence of Union Town, Alabama.
After a waste disposal company agreed to store toxic coal
ash in a landfill near their homes,
some members of a local group posted about their concerns
on their Facebook page.
But in 2016, the company behind the landfill
sued four members of the group for $30 million,
which is a ridiculous amount to sue anyone for,
led along people living in a community
where the median household income is just $14,000.
Although, to be fair, the attorney representing the landfill
claimed that that $30 million figure
wasn't actually as bad as it sounds.
The $30 million I think has been,
it's actually was 15.
There were two counts, but they each contained 15.
Oh, that's okay then.
Yeah, it's not $30 million,
it's two counts of $15 million.
Or you could say it's five counts of $6 million,
or 30 counts of $1 million,
or three billion counts each containing one cent.
The point is, math is fun.
Now, thankfully, after the ACLU stepped in
to help the residents defend themselves,
the company voluntarily withdrew the lawsuit,
but the experience clearly left its mark on the community.
It has scared a lot of people in his area for speaking up
because those individuals are afraid to get their backlash,
not knowing that that's just a scare tactic
to get you to leave things alone
so they can continue their power and control
to do what they wanna do.
Yeah, she's exactly right,
but the problem with scare tactics is that they work
because things that could hurt you are scary.
The only people who aren't scared of anything
look like this and look at that smiling idiot.
able to feel joy because he believes more than literally anything in the world
that his soul has been liberated from 75 million year old alien spirits
that a psychiatrist helped paralyze under the pretense of income tax inspections.
Seems nice Tommy boy, seems real nice.
The thing is, pretty much everyone from judges to legal scholars agrees
that slap suits are a scourge.
That is why 30 states have some form of anti-slap laws
which very significantly but broadly can enable defendants to force plaintiffs to justify their claim early on.
And if they can't do that, the case is not only dismissed, but in some states the defendant is then awarded attorneys fees.
Now when they are well crafted, these laws can strike an important balance between protecting legitimate claims and deterring time-wasting bullshit.
The problem is, 20 states don't have those laws.
And with no federal anti-slap legislation,
plaintiffs can simply file a suit in one of those states,
one of which is West Virginia.
And that is actually where Bob Murray sued us,
despite the fact that neither he nor I live there.
And we are far from the only critics
that he sued over the years.
And it's not the first time Murray has sued a journalist
for coverage he saw unfavorably.
According to The Washington Post,
he's filed at least nine lawsuits against journalists
and their news organizations between 2001 and 2015
for reports that they saw as critical.
And since Murray likes to sue,
we're not gonna say another word about...
about him as a journalist.
Here.
Now, I get... I get that he is clearly joking there,
but that is also the exact culture of fear
that Murray may be trying to create here.
Lawsuits like his make people think twice
before reporting on his business,
or pointing things out like the fact
that Bob Murray's general facial expression
answers the question, what would it look like if an egg was mentally undressing you?
And I would argue, eyes up here, egg. And I would argue some of Murray's suits have clearly
been attempts to bully people into silence, sometimes over incredibly trivial slights.
He sued an editorial cartoonist over this unflattering cartoon of him, which is just pathetic.
Who sews a cartoonist?
You think I'm going to go to court over this thing
that I found online, which appears to be me
presenting a teard cake made with syringes, condoms,
and broken glass?
I can only assume that's a metaphor for this show,
in which Cakes nailed it, no notes.
LAUGHTER AND APPLAUSE
Murray...
Murray has also sued this couple, James and Lisa Ciocia.
In 2012, they held a short protest
outside Murray Energy's Ohio headquarters,
with only about 20 people marching around.
It looked like this, and that has to be
the least intimidating protest I have ever seen.
One sign calls him Mr Murray,
and another is in serif font.
It's less a protest and more an inter-office memo.
But Murray nevertheless sued not only the Ciociers,
but also a local newspaper, the Chagrin Valley Times,
for their coverage of it.
Now, both the Ciociers and the newspaper
beat Murray's claims for defamation,
but he tied them both up in appeals for years,
and the newspaper's defence cost hundreds of thousands of dollars.
In fact, the appellate court judge even explicitly wrote in his decision
that Murray's suit shows why Ohio should adopt an anti-slap statute,
pointing out that the paper had completely removed all their coverage of Murray from their site,
which the judge said was an example of the chilling effects a suit like this has.
And that is the point here.
Lawsuits are like famous Instagram pugs.
They don't have to work to be considered very, very successful.
And by cultivating a reputation for being aggressively litigious,
Murray may have actually got what he wanted
and successfully applied a chokehold on how he is covered.
And while it is hard to show you an unreported story,
in researching this piece,
we did actually stumble on two ongoing lawsuits involving Murray
that have got almost no press, which is honestly strange,
because once you hear the details, I think you'll agree that they probably should have.
Now in one, Murray discloses that two women who had worked for him had alleged harassment
and the perpetration of a hostile work environment by Mr Murray.
And while he denies those claims, he also admits paying those women considerable sums of money
in confidential settlements. In a separate ongoing lawsuit, a different former employee
alleges there were numerous attempts by Murray to kiss her on the lips, pulling her into him to quote
copper feel and calling her into his office on one occasion to give him hot water with lemon
while he was wearing nothing but his underwear. And what possible thought process could have led
to that? Well, let's see, I'm horny. I've got a little bit of a sore throat. I'd really like to
solve both problems in a way that makes a female employee feel subhuman. Wait a minute, I think
I've got it. Bob, you've done it again, you clever little coal goblin. But wait, wait,
Because it gets worse.
The same complaint also claims that Murray had the plaintiff
on more than one occasion get on her hands and knees
to locate or pick up items for him,
including one time when she was required
to find a small hard object he had dropped.
And he only told her after she found it
that it was a kidney stone he'd fished out of the toilet
after passing it.
And yeah, yeah, yeah.
I know that that is absolutely nauseating.
But remember, you chose this.
You all chose to be here.
Everyone in this audience could have gone to see Stomp tonight instead.
Tickets are now available from $50.
That's a great deal for a classic New York show.
And sure, it's not going to blow your mind.
It's Stomp.
But it's been around for nearly 30 years for good reason,
and that reason is, at no point did they force their audience to imagine
this man fishing out his own kidney stone from a toilet.
It's a good show.
Now, now...
Now, I have to tell you, Murray denies all of those allegations,
which he says are concocted and claims that the woman is using the litigation
as a vehicle to harass and publicly embarrass him
in an attempt to strongarm him into a settlement.
Although, I will also tell you that one of her colleagues
backed her up in a separate deposition,
saying she told her the kidney stone story at the time
and had described Murray as screaming at her to find it, find it.
And what was possibly the rush there?
Was Murray honestly worried that someone else was going to find his pee pebble first?
I got it! I got Bob's Cockrock! I'm going to be a millionaire!
It's genuinely hard to find the right response to all of that once you've heard it, although
I do think a seven-foot squirrel, quoting a justifiably angry minor, may have actually said it best.
Eat shit, Bob!
Exactly. Beautifully put.
But the point is, it's a little weird that these lawsuits didn't get wider coverage.
These are serious allegations of workplace misconduct involving the chairman of the country's
largest private coal company, a highly public figure who constantly brags about his closeness
to the president and his role in shaping energy and environmental policy.
I know with Oki that one reason might be that organisations are justifiably wary of getting
sued by Murray.
is even if they are baseless, his lawsuits can do major damage.
Ours wound up costing over $200,000 in legal fees.
And even though our insurance covered part of it,
and we were lucky that HBO stood by us,
this lawsuit was infuriating,
took up a lot of time and resources,
and resulted in a tripling of our libel insurance premiums.
Despite the fact that to reiterate,
we fucking won this case!
Look...
CHEERING
Look, here's the thing.
We badly need effective anti-slapped laws nationwide
to deter powerful people like Bob Murray
from using the courts to shut down people's legitimate dissent.
And I know that after tonight, Murray will probably sue us again.
Even though everything I've said has been rigorously vetted by our lawyers,
who may I add, are getting very tired with us.
Because when we reached out to Murray last week
to review the details that we planned to include in this piece,
He wrote a letter back, not addressed directly to us,
but to our bosses at AT&T and HBO,
saying we were falsely vilifying him,
launching scurrilous attacks,
and arguing that none of his lawsuits are slap suits,
which they absolutely are.
So I guess, here we go again.
It is yet another Bob Murray attempt
to bully people into silence,
and he's been doing this for decades.
But you know what?
I will stand behind our first piece,
and I'll stand behind this one.
And as for the jokes that we made about him,
we are more than covered there.
The judge in our case pointed out
that the Supreme Court has consistently protected
loose figurative language that cannot reasonably be understood
to convey facts about someone.
Basically, jokes are fine.
And I've got to say, it would be really tempting
to say a bunch of loose figurative things
about Bob Murray right now,
and not just on our behalf,
but on behalf of every small newspaper
an individual that he sued and on behalf of every employee
who's felt ill-treated by his company
and who may have wanted to tell him to say, eat shit,
but couldn't.
And here is where I actually have some bad news
and some good news for you.
The bad news is, the last two years
have honestly just been too exhausting,
so I'm afraid I am not going to say anything more
about Bob Murray tonight.
The good news is, why would I,
when I can simply sing it instead?
So
We went to court against the world's worst sport and learned important lessons on the way
We spoke with perfect candor and got accused of slander because Bob Murray wants to make us pay
So even though he'll threaten legal armageddon. We have just one tiny thing to say
Bob Murray can go fuck himself today!
Ladies and gentlemen,
tell me better response to Bob Murray's complete bullshit.
Please welcome to the show the Suck My Balls Bob Dancers.
Bobby Murray, Bobby Murray, hey Bob, watch this.
He went to the loo then spin him on a Lisa's face
Filled a rocket with puppies and he shot it in his face
In this space keep lurchin Nancy Kerrigan and watch the cry for fun
That's right if we discuss Bob Murray in a way no reasonable person could screw as factual we could say whatever the fuck we like
So come on everyone. Let's head to the streets
He's a great man, he's a great man, he's a great man, he's a great man, he's a great man, he's a great man, he's a great man, he's a great man, he's a great man, he's a great man, he's a great man, he's a great man, he's a great man, he's a great man, he's a great man, he's a great man, he's a great man, he's a great man, he's a great man, he's a great man, he's a great man, he's a great man, he's a great man, he's a great man, he's a great man, he's a great man, he's a great man, he's a great man, he's a great man, he's a great man, he's a great man, he's a great man, he's a great man, he's a great man, he's a great man, he's a great man, he's a great man, he
That's exactly who I'm talking about.
Can I bring my car?
It's not ideal.
It'll be fine if I leave it here, right?
I don't know!
The river, he doesn't like some hanks
He caught up and goes here
Told Hitler to quit painting and to find a new career
He masturbates to shittler's list
Old Galler hates him hard
He was Cosby's drug supplier, Jeffrey Abstin's prison guard
Down, Paul, Paul, he's a criminal
Stop! Everybody, please! Stop! Stop! Stop! Stop!
John, as HBO's legal counsel, please stop.
I have something very important to say.
One day at the M&M store, Bob Murray walks through the door.
He was in twaring pants that day. His dick and balls on full display.
Full display!
He grabbed M&M's from a bowl and crammed them up his anal hole.
He sprang his butt cheeks far and wide. He told the tourists to look inside.
He said my rectum's full of treats,
Breaks in there and
Grab some sweets!
Grab some sweets!
These are all real things Bob Murray did.
See ya in court, fuckface!
Look, it's Mr. Nato Fata,
Twisting about Bob Murray.
I believe you've heard of him.
You mean the Zodiac Killer?
That's the one.
Well, my friends and I have a little something to say about him.
Bob, Bob Murray is a fairy, putting aside a personal quarrel's, the man fox, the man fox,
We made up these anecdotes that's silly and insane
We made up these anecdotes that's silly and insane
We made up these anecdotes that's silly and insane
We made up these anecdotes that's silly and insane
We made up these anecdotes that's silly and insane
We made up these anecdotes that's silly and insane
We made up these anecdotes that's silly and insane
We made up these anecdotes that's silly and insane
We made up these anecdotes that's silly and insane
We made up these anecdotes that's silly and insane
We made up these anecdotes that's silly and insane
We made up these anecdotes that's silly and insane
We made up these anecdotes that's silly and insane
We made up these anecdotes that's silly and insane
They're silly and insane
We could go on and on and on
And on and on and on and on
But we will stop the song
We don't see better fight your pain
We'll eat
Shit
Baaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
you
