MUSIC
We're going to dive straight in with our main story tonight.
This is our final show of the year,
so we thought we'd focus on someone who's had a pretty big 12 months.
Elon Musk, a man who can pull off pretty much any bad guy in a movie look.
There's Lex Luthor posing for the cover of Metropolis Maniacs Monthly.
There's Why No, Mr Bond, I and my child, Bride, expect you to die.
There's I Just Bought Your Media Company,
I'm about to strip you for parts.
There's Space's first racist sheriff,
and finally, the less fuckable reimagining
of Billy Zane's character in Titanic.
Truly, the man has range.
Elon has made news all year from test launching
the most powerful rocket ever built to just this week,
having to recall two million cars due to safety concerns.
He even challenged Mark Zuckerberg to a cage fight,
to which Zuckerberg replied, send me location.
And may I suggest to both of them, interior volcano.
And then, of course, there is Twitter.
He now calls it X, but the rest of us still call it Twitter.
He officially acquired it 12 months ago,
and since then, it has been one fiasco after another,
with the most recent coming when he tweeted his agreement
with this anti-Semitic post,
calling the great replacement theory the actual truth.
That caused many big advertisers to flee,
and then in the midst of denying any anti-Semitic intent,
Elon decided to taunt the sponsors who had left.
Don't advertise.
You don't want them to advertise?
No.
What do you mean?
If somebody's gonna try to blackmail me with advertising,
blackmail me with money, go fuck yourself.
LAUGHTER
Go fuck yourself.
Is that clear?
I hope it is.
Wow.
It is hard to say what's most embarrassing there.
The fact that the world's richest man is playing the,
you're not breaking up with me, I'm breaking up with you, Card,
or that he's doing it too confused silence
while wearing a jacket from Ralph Lauren's Midlife Crisis collection.
He's clearly going for a bad boy there,
but ended up looking more like red-pilled chip from Rescue Rangers.
Now, that clip actually made the rounds,
but for my money, this exchange a few seconds later is even better.
Look, actually, what this advertising boycott is going to do,
it's going to kill the company.
And you think that the...
But... And the whole world will know
that those advertisers killed the company,
and we will document it in great detail.
But there are... Those advertisers, I imagine, are going to say...
They're going to say, we can kill the company.
Oh, yeah? They're going to say...
Tell it to Earth. Let's see how Earth responds to that.
Yeah. Tell it to Earth.
And I honestly hope he does that.
I hope he tries selling every living creature on the planet.
Including those weird deep sea fish.
All about how advertiser boycotts are gonna kill Twitter.
Just so, one of them can open its objectively horrifying jaws
and say, yeah, man, cos you said that weird shit about juice.
We live in a black void,
and even we understand the order of operations here.
And look, I could talk for hours about what Elon has done to Twitter.
Many in the media do, because it's where they spend most of their work days.
But the truth is, it's not the most important thing Elon is in charge of.
It's arguably not even the most important social networking site.
We all know the only social media app that matters these days
is the comment section of Venmo.
That is where the real drama is.
But Musk's time at Twitter has definitely changed
is how many people perceive him.
Because for a long time, he was seen as one of a kind genius
who'd saved humanity and was described as a real-life Iron Man.
It's a comparison that he even welcomed
cameoing as himself in Iron Man 2,
although I never really liked those comparisons.
As far as I'm concerned, the only real-life Iron Man
is Troy Herchopee, who spent his entire life designing a suit of armour
that could withstand a grizzly bear attack
and was kind enough to film the tests.
Are you ready, Troy?
I'm ready. Here it comes.
Yes!
That is the hero we deserve.
That is my Iron Mac.
Still, for a long time,
Elon's public image was that of a maverick celebrity inventor
who cut through red tape, revolutionised space travel
and made electric cars cool.
And he does do a lot.
In addition to Twitter, he's the head of five other companies,
Tesla, SpaceX, The Boring Company, Neuralink and XAI.
And thanks to their roller coaster fortunes,
he can claim the twin distinctions
of being both the richest person in the world
and the first person ever to lose $200 billion,
which is hard to even wrap your head around.
It's like hearing someone won a marathon
after accidentally running 200 miles in the wrong direction.
And to hear Elon tell it, he's been doing this,
at least in part, to benefit humanity.
He recently said of Tesla,
I've done more for the environment than any single human on Earth,
demonstrating a pretty strong messianic streak.
In fact, Sam Altman, the CEO of OpenAI,
who's both worked with and clashed with Musk,
has said, Elon desperately wants the world to be saved,
but only if he can be the one to save it,
which is a pretty big asterisk.
It's like Jesus says in the book of Matthew,
Love thy neighbour, but more importantly, me,
and if you don't, fuck you, find your own heaven,
Jay Crissel out.
And I know there are people who love Elon
and people who utterly hate him,
and there are going to be parts of this piece
that irritate both groups.
There are also people who would understandably
rather just ignore him, but as you will see,
we might have passed the point
where that isn't an option for any of us.
So tonight, let's look at Elon Musk
Elon Musk. And let's start with how he earned his business genius reputation.
I'm going to skip over the early years, the growing up in apartheid South Africa,
then emigrating to the US via Canada during his college years.
You can read any number of books on that, or just ask your next bumble date,
who turned up in a fedora and released a Snyder cut T-shirt,
ready to spend the entire night talking about it.
Elon first earned his fortune from creating a company called Zip2 with his brother,
before going on to help run PayPal alongside Peter Thiel.
And if I could only have been a fly on that wall,
I'd have flown straight into a hot light bulb.
LAUGHTER
He then invested that personal fortune into SpaceX,
a company that would create and launch
its own rockets and spacecraft.
And that is a pretty gutsy move,
to go from an online payment system to literal rocket science.
Although, at some point out,
SpaceX wasn't exactly starting from square one.
What SpaceX has been very successful at
is taking basically off-the-shelf technology,
stuff that was developed by NASA 50 years ago, and streamlining it.
So in that way, he's kind of the Henry Ford of space, because Henry Ford didn't invent
the automobile, he just figured out how to make the automobile commercially viable.
Yeah, like Henry Ford, Elon Musk managed to build on the technology that others had invented.
That's not actually the only way.
He's like Henry Ford, which you'd know if you ever googled either of their names in
the word anti-Semitism.
But let's not get ahead of ourselves here.
The point is Musk took a big risk on starting a rocket company which nearly didn't work.
His first three attempts to launch one failed and then he made a truly audacious gamble.
When you had that third failure in a row, did you think, I need to pack this in?
Never.
Why not?
I don't ever give up.
Eight weeks later, Musk bet the company on another flight.
We have liftoff.
time around, everything worked.
Perfect.
If that fourth launch hadn't worked, that would have been it.
We would have not had the resources to mount a fifth.
You couldn't have gone out at that point.
Yes, death would have been, I think, inevitable.
That is genuinely impressive, although I will say there are less weird ways to say we would
have gone out of business than death is inevitable.
Phrasing matters is why people say we just had a baby instead of Lisa's shit life out
of her who are.
Same meaning, different feeling.
And that trend continued through SpaceX's subsequent effort,
something that, as this former head of NASA points out,
is not something that they would ever be able to get away with.
If we lost rockets at the rate that Elon Musk loses
his big starship, NASA would have been out of business.
Congress would have shut us down.
If we lost one starship, let alone six
however many it's been. We can't do that.
Right. The US government can't waste billions of dollars
just blowing things up in the vague hope
that it'll somehow turn into a success,
unless, of course, those things are Iraq or Afghanistan.
So SpaceX began with a big gamble,
had a flirtation with disaster,
and then became a massive success.
And that pattern persisted with Tesla.
That company was funded in part by pre-selling cars
to future owners, only to run into repeated production delays
and spiraling costs.
Just watch Musk at one meeting of those early buyers,
where he told them that the price had gone up
on the cars that they'd already bought.
We took faith in you, and now you're just turning around
and changing the price of us, not telling us.
And then we find out... Yeah.
..backwards, and now we're kind of...
..it's hurt because we weren't told.
We can sell cars for, you know,
less than they cost us to produce.
If anything, more behind, more than that,
it could have been an accident or two.
There's a bunch of comments after it.
OK.
There seemed to be a little bit of anger from some people in the room
who felt that we'd kind of done a bait and switch.
And, I mean, that's just sort of a little bit true
that there was a bit of a bait and switch.
I mean, that's...
I mean, kind of what happened.
Oh, it was very tough.
Yeah, you can see how baiting customers with one price
and switching it for another
might be considered a bait and switch.
There's actually a great e-con book on the subject entitled Words Mean What Words Mean
And yet Tesla is now a big success with factories on three continents delivering over a million vehicles a year
Meanwhile SpaceX is currently valued around a hundred and fifty billion making one of the most valuable private companies in the world
Although it is worth noting that his boldness
Sometimes comes with a tendency to over promise and show off products long before they are ready like in 2019
when Musty decided to demonstrate how indestructible his new Cybertruck was
by having its chief designer chuck a steel ball at its window.
Frans, can you try to break this glass, please?
LAUGHTER
Yeah.
Sure? Yeah.
Oh, my God.
Well, maybe that was a little too hard.
LAUGHTER
Yeah, not great, but also kind of charming.
I'll be honest, there is something I kind of like about the Cybertruck.
I mean, I don't want to own one or drive near one.
It's basically a £7,000 smushed-up refrigerator,
moving at 60 miles an hour, being driven by odds are a real piece of shit.
But there is something appealing about a man so passionate about his idea
that he's willing to ignore questions about aesthetics,
performance, durability, practicality, safety and who on earth
actually wants to spend up to $100,000 to drive every child's first attempt at drawing a car
and build it anyway. And that's not his only embarrassing product launch. Two years ago,
he introduced a Tesla robot by showcasing a prototype that was just a dancer in a robot body
and it was exactly as dumb as that sounds.
I absolutely love it.
Apparently, all you have to do to launch a robotics company
is invest in a spandex bodysuit and a dancer, so with that in mind,
Behold my new creation
You can power down robot, thank you for your service
Embarrassing moment aside there is a lot to like about Elon's companies
SpaceX has made real achievements like reusable rocket technology
and making space easier and more affordable to access.
And Tesla has pushed automakers to take electric cars seriously
in a way that would have seemed impossible 20 years ago.
But as one of Elon's critics points out,
there are costs to that progress that often get overlooked.
Is Elon Musk a net positive for society?
I would argue he is.
I think the EV race is a great thing.
Space exploration is really hopeful.
and just kind of inspiring.
The problem is with the word net,
and that is once we decide an individual or a company
is a net good for society,
we don't want to hold him or the company accountable for anything.
Right.
Even if you think Elon is a net positive,
it doesn't mean that we shouldn't talk about the harm
that he's doing along the way.
And let's start with his employees.
Many of whom have called Elon a nightmare to work for,
and not just at Twitter, where he fired most of the staff
and ordered the rest of work in, quote,
extremely hardcore mode.
He's been like this at every company,
as this early employee at SpaceX will attest.
It was not unusual to have a phone call from him
at 3 in the morning on your cell phone.
You better, by God, have that next to your bed to answer.
He's just gone into yelling fits against me,
telling me I'm stupid and I don't know what I'm talking about,
and I've seen him do it to other very intelligent people.
So he'll definitely find your weakness in your personality,
in your character, in your spirit.
And I wouldn't say exploit it,
but you'll definitely crack.
Well, that sounds unpleasant.
Not just your boss calling to abuse you,
but because there are only two reasons
someone should be calling you at three in the morning.
And they are because, A, I loved one is having an emergency
and needs your help, or your house is on fire,
and even then, that could have been a text.
LAUGHTER
And the damage isn't just emotional.
Workers at this factory's complained of immense pressure and unrealistic deadlines.
A report a few years ago on his Tesla factory in Fremont, California,
found employees complaining that style and speed trumped safety
and that workers there had been sliced by machinery, crushed by forklifts,
burned intellectual explosions and sprayed with molten metal.
One worker even claimed that she'd been told Elon didn't want signs
or anything yellow-like caution tape in the factory,
which isn't good because caution tape is important.
It lets people know something might be dangerous and unstable,
like a skull and crossbones on a bottle
or this jacket on a middle-aged man.
Now, Tesla does deny that,
but its claims about its factories can be hard to verify.
Even when regulators try to get involved at Musk's companies,
they can be strongly resisted.
For example, his Nevada Gigafactory at one point
denied entry to state OSHA inspectors for nearly three months,
which is ridiculous.
The word gigafactory alone should be enough
to warrant an immediate inspection.
But it's not just workers who Musk is willing to put at risk.
Sometimes it's his own customers.
He's long been developing self-driving car technology
and has sometimes knowingly exaggerated its capabilities.
The two pieces of software available are called autopilot
and full self-driving, but despite their names,
neither system can drive a car on its own.
Yet, in this 2016 ad, it appears to be doing just that,
Amplified by the introductory text that Elon personally asked for which reads the car is driving itself
But that was extremely misleading. It was driving along a pre-planned route
It was only self-driving the way that your Nana self drives herself up and down the stairs and Tesla will note
They tell drivers they should keep their hands on the wheel and take over if anything goes wrong
And I sure hope drivers do that because he's been inviting them to try out full self-driving in beta mode
Basically, having drivers find the bugs in new software,
even on complicated city streets,
and with predictable results.
We're gonna make this left turn.
And I'm getting honked at.
I just...
But now it's just turned right.
Oh.
We're supposed to go left.
Ogan is not a professional test driver,
nor is he a Tesla employee.
Instead, he's one of the over 50,000 customers that Tesla has allowed to access FSD Beta.
We just ran a red light.
We just ran a red light.
That is pretty alarming, especially the moment where you see people pushing a stroller way too close to that car.
Because even if Tesla drivers volunteered to take part in this high-stakes experiment,
the people around them sure didn't, no one got a push alert on their phone saying,
and say, hey, Tesla here, please consent to take part in the beta test
that's currently hurtling towards you.
Do hurry, time is a factor.
And Musk has taken a pretty blithe attitude towards self-driving deaths.
In 2016, when concerns were first emerging, he told reporters that
if they wrote stories that dissuaded people from using autonomous driving systems
or regulators from approving them, then they would be killing people.
Essentially arguing that any deaths in the present day
will be more than offset by lives saved later.
And just this week, when The Washington Post noted
that they tallied about 40 fatal or serious crashes
involving Tesla's driver-assistant software.
Tesla responded by saying,
we believe it is morally indefensible
not to make these systems available to a wider set of consumers
given the incontrovertible data
that shows it's saving lives and preventing injury.
But rather than producing that data,
it promised more detailed information
will be publicly available in the near future,
which I'm sorry, is just not data-bitch behaviour.
That is coming from TV's number one data bitch.
Anyone who collects incontrovertible data
would give you a more specific date than the near future,
because data bitches, as we all know, are also calendar bitches.
LAUGHTER
And look, I know myself, and look,
history is littered with titans of business
who were shitty or broken people,
from Thomas Edison through Henry Ford through Steve Jobs.
The difference is, by and large, they didn't open up their brain
to let the whole world have a constant look inside.
But Elon does, and the glimpses we get can be terrifying,
and that brings us back to Twitter.
Musk has been a heavy user for years,
putting out classic tweets like,
I put the art in fart,
69 days after 420 again, ha-ha,
and technically alcohol is a solution,
which technically isn't a joke.
And his biographer will tell you,
he's addicted to the app to a genuinely problematic extent.
One day he was traveling with a friend, Antonio Gracias,
and Musk had kept tweeting late at night
doing these ridiculous tweets, sometimes very harmful ones.
And so the friend said, let me take your phone,
and I'm going to put it in the safe here in the hotel room.
Friend punches in the code, and he said,
that way you can't use it late at night.
At three in the morning, Musk calls hotel security
to get him to open the safe, and he starts doing tweets.
He was addicted to tweeting.
Look, I am sure when the average security guard
is called up to a billionaire's hotel room at 3am,
they have a list of things to expect and it begins and ends with dead bodies.
So it must have been a pleasant surprise
when he wheeled an empty garbage bin into the room.
I only survived Elon Musk punching random numbers into his hotel safe
just because he thought of I put the art in fart
and the whole world simply had to know.
And look, Elon's tweets were never that great,
not like mine of course, which are,
After Banga, after Banga, after Banga, after Certified Banga.
I don't miss.
But in recent years, they've taken a turn
toward the nasty and conspiratorial,
getting increasingly into the realm of right-wing trolls.
And many point to one particular moment as the turning point here,
the pandemic lockdowns.
California's 40 million residents are in lockdown.
At the time, the government had ordered Musk
to close his Tesla factories in California.
I mean, he was pissed that his factories were kind of forced to close.
Yes, ultimately, yes. That's the things.
He wanted them there and he wanted them working.
He thought it was the it was an existential crisis of Tesla didn't succeed.
He really though for the world, for all of us.
And then it got weird.
Free America now.
People, their freedom back in California have been half empty
this whole time back their freedom.
Musk told his employees that he intended to defy orders and go to work.
CEO Elon Musk tweeted,
I will be on the line with everyone else.
If anyone is arrested, I ask that it only be me.
OK, what that really drives home
is just how different Musk is from the rest of us,
because there is rich and detached.
And then there's, I've asked the cops not to arrest anyone else,
so we should be good rich and detached.
And look, let's admit, a lot of our brains
got a bit broken during the pandemic.
I think we can all agree that it'd be really cool
if the entirety of the pandemic chapter in future history textbooks
simply read, weird time had to be there, we did our best.
But Elon didn't channel his anxiety in one of the normal ways,
like spraying groceries with disinfectants,
getting really into sourdough bread baking,
or tracking down and purchasing one-of-a-kind rat erotic.
You know, normal stuff that we all did.
Instead, his brain broke in the direction of right-wingers
who were loudly opposing the shutdowns.
And once he started siding with them over those complaints,
he found himself sympathising with their broader concerns
about a woke mind virus,
so that they were being mocked and shadow-banded
and generally disrespected by Twitter.
And since he was also the richest man in the world,
he could fix all of this by simply buying the whole thing,
which is what he then did.
And I don't have time to run through every bad decision
that he's made at Twitter, although, real quick,
he cut about 80% of the staff
to solve the trust and safety council,
blew up the verification system,
exercised the same censorship he claimed to be against,
reactivated the counts of various white supremacists,
released the Twitter files in which he basically mistook
the emails of various feckless, left-leaning tech weenies
struggling with the impossible job of content moderation
for a vast elite conspiracy to silence right-wing dipshits,
changed the name to X, put a gigantic X on the building,
which he then took down, and just this week reversed his early
decision and let Alex Jones back onto the site,
a decision that's been met with resounding praise
from big, loud fucks quarterly.
And notably, his time in charge of Twitter
has seen a rise in unpleasant rhetoric from Musk himself,
including boosting a transphobic documentary
saying every parent should watch this,
responding, interesting, to a tweet reading,
blacks kill each other, whites kill themselves,
and boosting this office meme, falsely implying
there had been a cover-up about Pizza Gate.
I didn't think it was possible,
but it genuinely makes me miss the man who once posted,
send me your dankest memes.
And this picture of a turtle on wheels
with the message, science has gone too far.
And while Elon will dispute there has been a rise
in hate speech on the platform,
or that he has pandered to white nationalists,
You know who disagrees with him about that?
White nationalists.
Just listen to Nick Fuentes telling Richard Spencer
everything Elon has done for their movement.
It's only been a year since Musk acquired Twitter,
which is not really a long time,
and the changes didn't even begin to roll out
until less than a year ago.
And yet, the change has been dramatic.
How much the window has shifted noticeably
on issues like white identity,
which apparently is suddenly mainstream.
It wasn't for a long time.
It seemed like Charlie Kirk said one or two things
about it last year, and then this year, now everyone's a white nationalist, now everyone's
a white identitarian. You open up one of the social platforms, it's so hot, it's so fast,
it changes public opinion virtually overnight, and really in our favour.
Wow. All of that is horrifying, but the use of the term white identitarian is just not
fooling anyone. That is what the word racist writes on a job application to make it sound
like it went to college.
And the fact that Elon seems to be getting increasingly
radicalised is a big problem because we put a lot of power
into his hands and much more than you may realise.
Remember when I said that no one is taking the big swings
that he is? That includes the government.
And over the years, that means a lot of things that this country
relies on have been outsourced to Musk.
Every day, Musk's company is controlled more of the internet,
power grid, transportation system, objects in orbit,
the nation's security infrastructure and its energy supply.
To take just one example,
SpaceX has now put more than 4,500
Starlink satellites into orbit,
meaning that Musk's company now accounts for
over half of all active satellites.
And that puts the US government in a bit of a bind.
Just watch a National Security Council spokesman
try to explain why it wouldn't be acting
in response to Elon's boosting
of that great replacement theory tweet.
There's innovation out there in the private sector
that we'd be foolish to walk away from.
I'm not aware of any specific efforts to address...
To address our concerns over his rhetoric,
but that doesn't mean that we accept or agree with
or condone in any way that anti-Semitic rhetoric that he pushed.
Yeah, we're now at the point where the government is explicitly saying
we've chosen to look the other way on the antisemitism thing,
or as it's more commonly known, a daddy's home too.
And the problem isn't just the optics of having someone
as erratic as Elon in charge of half the world's satellites.
His opinions can change the shape of world events.
When Russia invaded Ukraine, one of their first actions
was to sever its internet access.
Now Musk, to his credit,
agreed to provide Ukraine access to his Starlink network
and donated hardware in their agreement
to reach the internet via satellite,
and they were very grateful.
Lieutenant Taras Berazovets is a spokesman for Ukraine's military.
He told us Starlink is crucial for commanding troops on the battlefield.
We've been so grateful to SpaceX and to Elon Musk.
Without Starlink, none of our offensives would be so successful.
It's true. The Ukrainian military was grateful to SpaceX and Elon Musk,
which is one of those headlines that even a few years ago
would have sounded impossible, like Panera Bread's lemonade
linked to Second Death and Henry Kissinger finally dead.
And by the way, I'm pretty sure it's the lemonade that got him.
But as time went on, Elon toyed with the idea
of withdrawing Starlink's service,
complaining that the cost was too high,
even as he seemed increasingly Russia friendly.
At one point, he said Russia should be allowed
to annex Ukrainian land, and tweeted a proposed peace plan
that would essentially just give Russia everything they wanted.
Perhaps most notably, he refused a Ukrainian request
to activate Stalin in Crimea,
enabling them to launch an attack on Russian ships.
Reportedly, because a Russian official warned him
that that could lead to a nuclear response.
And I guess that must be true, right?
What are Russian officials gonna do?
Lie to an easily-flattered CEO to get exactly what they want?
No, I don't see it.
And look, Elon still insists that he is pro-Ukraine and...
OK.
But US officials are now in the awkward position
of having to defer to him on policy.
One Pentagon spokesman even said that he'd let a reporter
interview an official only if Musk gave permission,
saying, we'll talk to you if Elon wants us to.
Which isn't great.
You know, before I respond on behalf of the mightiest
military on Earth, let me just run this up the chain
and make sure it's cool with Admiral Dank memes for 20.
Elon Musk could not have humiliated the Pentagon anymore
if he'd opened up his own building next door called
The hexagon, the pentagon that fucks.
Now, the pentagon has since signed a contract with Starlink
to take over certain services and rely less on Musk's whim.
But even Elon's own biographer has expressed unease
about just how important he's become.
So, how does Elon feel about having this much global power?
You know, he says to me, how am I in the middle of this?
But frankly, he loves it. He loves drama.
He loves being the epic hero.
I think it is a little bit dangerous because he loves it too much.
Wait, he loves drama?
I'm sorry, I'm really not that comfortable with one of the most powerful people on earth
being summed up the same way you described Andy Cohen on New Year's Eve.
Look, the fact is, whether we like it or not, and the answer is absolutely not,
a huge number of very important things going forward are going to depend on how Elon is feeling,
which is a terrifying thing to say about anyone, but especially this guy.
So what can be done here? Well, it's actually simple.
We just create a robust infrastructure economy
that can resist easy monopolisation by private firms
headed by overconfident billionaires,
and we do it about 15 years ago.
Two problems with that.
One, time machines don't exist,
and two, the only person with the resources and ambition to build one
is the last guy that you'd want to do that,
because you'd probably use it to go back in time
and high-five baby Hitler.
And look, I'll be honest,
my feelings about Elon changed a bit
in the writing of this piece.
I'm probably now more impressed by what he's doing,
but more worried by the fact that he's the one who's been doing it.
Because he cultivates an image that he's simply too visionary,
too original to play by other people's rules,
and he waves away the damage that he does as the cost of innovation
and saving humanity.
But the truth is, that way of thinking isn't remotely original.
We've seen it so many times before.
The least surprising thing on Earth is a mid-laged billionaire CEO
with self-serving libertarian views,
increasingly racist politics and a messiah complex.
And it is long past time that he faced the kind of accountability
that should come with that, and not just from the echo chamber
that he bought himself online.
But from everyone whose lives are very much affected by it.
I know Elon might be unhappy with this piece.
He might even permanently delete my Twitter account,
which is fine by me, after all, when this absolute treasure is gone.
Elon's the one who will have to explain why to the Earth.
And he might say he's saving humanity. What have I ever done? What industries have I revolutionised?
And I admit nothing yet, but may I remind you?
I've already taken the first step towards building a robot empire.
Bow down and worship your metal gods!
Bounce! Bounce! Bounce! Bounce! Bounce! Bounce!
you
